instead of reaching for yet another
overpriced shampoo
here are some natural ways you can be
free of the flakes without breaking the
bank
counting down from number 13 aloe vera
for centuries aloe vera has been used to
treat different skin
conditions because of its antibacterial
and anti-fungal properties
that's right both bacteria and fungi
that naturally live on your scalp
can cause the inflammation that leads to
dandruff
aloe's ability to break down dead skin
cells also makes it an excellent
exfoliant and remedy for dandruff
the gel is most effective when you take
it straight from the plant
a small amount will be enough for one
treatment put it on your scalp and leave
it on for 15 minutes
during your morning shower you can rinse
it with a mild shampoo
repeat this on a regular basis for best
results
number 12 olive oil this one will work
as a natural moisturizer on your dry
scalp
after all it's that dryness that's
making you itchy
so you get the flakes coming down like
snow
another benefit of olive oil is that
particularly scaly areas absorb it
easily
and they fall off as one large piece
this makes it easier for your skin to
heal afterwards
apply a few drops of olive oil to your
scalp in the morning
10 minutes before washing your hair or
before you go to bed
if you choose the first option you can
simply wash it off with shampoo
if you decide to do it at night put a
towel on to absorb the extra oil
and wash it off when you wake up and
whichever method
you go with make sure the oil is warm
but not burning hot
you won't want to damage your scalp or
anything also avoid sprinkling dried
oregano or basil on your head
otherwise people will mistake you for
salad dressing
11. coconut oil this oil has a ton of
health benefits
and one of them is that it improves skin
hydration and
saves it from dryness it gets deep into
the epidermis and works its magic from
within
the fatty acids in it have regenerative
properties
which really comes in handy when
treating dandruff you can apply coconut
oil instead of your regular conditioner
after washing it also makes a nice hair
mask
rub the oil directly into your scalp and
rinse it off after a few minutes
do it once a week until you see results
or monkeys start surrounding your house
number 10 baking soda that baking soda
you have in your kitchen
is actually a natural exfoliant with
anti-fungal properties
it can remove dead skin cells reduce
excess oil
and help you forget about scaliness and
itching
take one tablespoon of baking soda put
it on your wet hair
and massage it into your scalp leave it
for a minute or two but not any longer
since it can dry out your hair then
shampoo and condition as usual
try using the baking soda method twice a
week for better results
9. aspirin there's one important
compound in aspirin that has
anti-inflammatory properties and makes
it an excellent exfoliator
and that's salicylic acid you might
recognize that word from acne treating
face washes and spot treatments
or your high school chemistry class well
it's also a common ingredient in
anti-dandruff shampoos simply take two
aspirin tablets
crush them into a powder and mix it with
the shampoo you normally use
massage it into your hair leave it on a
couple minutes and
rinse it right off presto you have less
dandruff
and your headache is gone
number eight lemon juice and yogurt
mix a bowl of yogurt with the juice of
one freshly squeezed lemon
and put the mixture on your hair a cool
tool to apply it with
could be the lemon peel you can also try
massaging your scalp with it
leave this citrusy hair mask on your
scalp for 10 minutes
and then wash it off with shampoo if you
apply this treatment
three to four times a week it'll start
working its magic
sooner than later but how are these
seemingly random ingredients so
effective against dandruff
well lemon juice has antimicrobial
properties in its citric acid
and yogurt is a natural moisturizer so
you're preventing dandruff and healing
your scalp at the same time
number seven apple cider vinegar
this natural ingredient gets rid of
dandruff thanks to its high acidity
which slows down the growth of yeast
you can either add a few tablespoons of
apple cider vinegar to your regular
shampoo
and just wash your hair with it or mix
it with water
in this case you should have equal parts
of both put the mix on your hair and
scalp after you've washed it
leave it for 15 minutes and then rinse
thoroughly
you can do it every day for a week just
be extra careful that the mix doesn't
get in your eyes or in any scratches on
your scalp
because it will burn
number six tea tree oil yet another oil
that fights microbes and soothes
inflammation
tea tree has been used to treat skin
issues for centuries
dandruff included mix a few drops of it
with your regular shampoo in a cup
and rub it into your scalp in about five
minutes
rinse it out well if you have sensitive
skin you can also add a few drops of
coconut oil to the mix to make it more
moisturizing
since tea tree oil can be pretty dry
this method is most effective when you
use it
every day for one week in a row
number five cinegreek seeds this herb
has just the right vitamins proteins and
acids to help combat dandruff
the seeds are also great at reducing
hair fall if that's another concern of
yours
anyway grind up one tablespoon of seeds
and pour 2 cups of hot water in the
powder
let it sit overnight strain the mix the
next morning
and rinse your hair with the remaining
fenugreek water
4. egg yolks this breakfast staple is
brimming with proteins and vitamins that
your hair and scalp love
and need as an added bonus eggs are an
excellent natural hair conditioner
that'll make your locs look bright and
shiny beat
two egg yolks in a bowl and put the goop
on your scalp when your hair is
completely dry
then put on a plastic shower cap for
about an hour
the trapped heat from your scalp helps
the yolks do their best
make sure to thoroughly wash off the
yolk with a good shampoo you might have
to do it twice
but you'll be sunny side up
three probiotics now let's tackle this
dandruff situation from within
probiotics have healthy bacteria in them
that can help your body fight
fungal infections but even if you don't
have dandruff
probiotics are great for strengthening
your immune system
improving your digestive health and even
lowering cholesterol
if you want in on any of that make sure
your diet includes
fermented foods like yogurt certain
kinds of cheese
including gouda mozzarella cheddar and
cottage cheese
and even pickles sauerkraut kefir and
kimchi
2. omega-3s omega-3
fatty acids are super important for your
body because they also support your
immune system
lungs heart and skin health when you get
enough
of them they help regulate oil
production and hydration
so if you're lacking you're much more
likely to experience dry hair and skin
which means dandruff you can get the
omega-3s you need from
fatty fish like salmon and trout cod
liver oil
flax and chia seeds walnuts and soybeans
just to name a handful
number one relaxation hey that's
unexpected right
yup stress could be the reason why you
have dandruff
in 2007 a group of french scientists
studied the connection between stress
and seborrheic dermatitis which is one
of the most common causes of dandruff
in the end they found that these two are
in fact connected
stress weakens your immune system so it
can't fight fungal and bacterial
infections as well as it should
there are countless ways to reduce
stress levels in your life
you might try yoga and meditation a
favorite hobby
relaxing music or spend more quality
time with your friends and family
just do more of what makes you happy
[Music]
of course if your dandruff doesn't go
away for a long time no matter what you
do
and you start noticing other symptoms
such as redness
or swelling in your scalp then it's time
to see the doctor
all of that can speak of a more serious
skin condition that requires
professional help